I'm convinced that in the future
learning surgery on the job is not
acceptable
I wanted to start the minimum wage
mitral valve surgery program and I
realized that because it is so complex
procedure and the learning curve is so
steep it is more efficient to provide or
to develop a simulator on which you can
practice and develop the skills
necessary for doing the operation then
starting the program and developing the
skills in the patients so this is the
minimally invasive mitral valve
simulator so you have a monitor which
can you can manage with the touchpad you
have the Minotaur kata me and you have
also three ports for using the robotic
assistance if you want to practice with
the robot we can open the system this is
the heart of the simulator there is a
camera that you can take off if you use
a robot and you open the lid you see the
papillary muscles it's also disposable
this is the disposable mitral valve
created from a special material that
mimics the characteristic of mitral
valve you can put it here in the
simulator
this is not a simulator with which you
just practice some mechanical skills
it's a kind of intelligence simulator
because it gives you feedback feedback
from a computer who observes exactly
what you are doing and looks at the
critical steps and informs you about for
instance the depth of the stitches you
put in the valve the simulator can be
used to maintain and practice those
skills before the operations so that
your learning curve is less steep so
I've put a badger so you see the depth
of the suture is one point seven almost
two millimeter which is correct the
width is a bit about one point nine
millimeter with wider it gives you the
opportunity to experience what the
boundaries are of your interventions so
but the suture is too broad but the
depth is okay so we can also see the
suture
one of the features of this simulator is
not only a training station but it can
be used in a clinical setting for
pre-planning of complex procedures
because the disposable mitral valve can
be replaced by 3d printed mitral valve
of individual patients so you make it 3d
prints of the valve of your patient put
it in our simulator and then you can
practice how to solve the problem of the
insufficiency of this valve